DOC-319 SR Mobile GA (#355)
amplitude/amplitude-docs: content/collections/session-replay/en/session-replay-android-plugin.md

landing: false
exclude_from_sitemap: false
updated_by: 0c3a318b-936a-4cbd-8fdf-771a90c297f0
updated_at: 1730306282
instrumentation_guide: true
platform: android
public: false
parent: 467a0fe0-6ad9-4375-96a2-eea5b04a7bcf
description: 'Choose this option if you use an Amplitude Android SDK to instrument your Android application.'
---
This article covers the installation of Session Replay using the Android SDK plugin. If your app is already instrumented with Amplitude, use this option. If you use a provider other than Amplitude for in-product analytics, choose the [standalone implementation](/docs/session-replay/session-replay-android-standalone).

{{partial:partials/session-replay/sr-android-performance}}

> Session Replay captures changes to an app's view tree, this means the main view and all it's child views recursively. It then replays these changes to build a video-like replay. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Session Replay captures changes to an app's **view tree**. The view tree includes the main view and all child views recursively. It then replays these changes to build a video-like replay. 
```

> For example, at the start of a session, Session Replay captures a full snapshot of the app's view tree. As the user interacts with the app, Session Replay captures each change to the view as a diff. When you watch the replay of a session, Session Replay applies each diff back to the original view tree in sequential order, to construct the replay. Session replays have no maximum length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, at the start of a session, Session Replay captures a full snapshot of the app's view tree. As the user interacts with the app, Session Replay captures each change to the view as a diff. Later, Session Replay constructs the replay of this session by applying each of these diffs to the original view tree in sequential order. 

Session replays have no maximum length.
```

{{partial:admonition type="tip" heading="Report issues"}}
To report issues with Session Replay for Android, see the [AmplitudeSessionReplay-Android GitHub repository](https://github.com/amplitude/AmplitudeSessionReplay-Android).
{{/partial:admonition}}

## Before you begin

The method you use depends on the version of the Amplitude Android SDK you use.

{{partial:tabs tabs="Android-Kotlin, Android (maintenance)"}}
{{partial:tab name="Android-Kotlin"}}

> If you use the current [Android-Kotlin SDK](/docs/sdks/analytics/android/android-kotlin-sdk), use the instructions for the Android Plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the current [Android-Kotlin SDK](/docs/sdks/analytics/android/android-kotlin-sdk), follow the instructions for the Android Plugin.
```

Use the latest version of the Session Replay plugin above `{{sdk_versions:session_replay_android_plugin}}`. For a list of all available versions, see [Maven Central](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/com.amplitude/plugin-session-replay-android/versions).

The Session Replay Android plugin requires that:

1. Your application is Android-based.
2. You can provide a device identifier to the SDK.
{{/partial:tab}}
{{partial:tab name="Android (maintenance)"}}
If you use the [maintenance Android SDK](/docs/sdks/analytics/android/android-sdk), use the instructions for Android Middleware.

Use the latest version of the Session Replay Middleware above version `{{sdk_versions:session_replay_android_middleware}}`. For a list of available versions, see all [release versions](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/com.amplitude/middleware-session-replay-android/versions) on Maven Central.

The Session Replay Middleware requires that:

> 1. Your application is Android-based.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your application is Android-based.
```

> 2. You are using `2.40.1` or higher of the [(maintenance) Amplitude Android SDK](/docs/sdks/analytics/android/android-sdk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You are using `2.40.1` or higher of the [(maintenance) Amplitude Android SDK](/docs/sdks/analytics/android/android-sdk).
```

> 3. You can provide a device ID to the SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can provide a device ID to the SDK.
```

Reviewer: Numbered lists are only used for multi-step procedures. Everything else uses a bulleted list.

### Captured sessions contain limited information

> Session Replay requires that the Android SDK send at least one event that includes Session Replay ID. If you instrument events outside of the Android SDK, Amplitude doesn't tag those events as part of the session replay. This means you can't use tools like Funnel, Segmentation, or Journeys charts to find session replays. You can find session replays with the User Sessions chart or through User Lookup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Session Replay requires that the Android SDK send at least one event that includes Session Replay ID. If you instrument events outside of the Android SDK, Amplitude doesn't tag those events as part of the session replay. This means you can't use tools like Funnel Analysis, Segmentation, or Journeys charts to find session replays. You can find session replays with the User Sessions chart or through User Lookup.
```

Reviewer: The chart's official name is Funnel Analysis. That's the only context in which the word Funnel is ever capitalized in our docs, btw.
